# sequence-dice-game
Sequence dice game comprises 60 chips (20 green, 20 red, and 20 blue), a $6\times6$ game board with each number $2-9,12$ randomly appearing four times, two dice and a set of instructions.  Players or teams take turns rolling two dice and placing the corresponding sum value on the board, with a roll of 10 considered defensive while a roll of 11 is considered wild and both require specific actions. The winner is the first player or team to create a sequence of five chips in a row, vertically, horizontally, or diagonally on the board. The sequence dice game is increasing in popularity due to its intriguing and entertaining nature. However, no research has been conducted to determine the average expected time to win the game. This study investigates the expected length of the sequence dice game. We used the coupon collector model for unequal probabilities to theoretically simplify the playing board to a one-dimensional board and analysed the expected time it would take to win the game with a restricted set of rules. Empirically, we explored the expected time it would take to win the game with a one-dimensional board when the rules are followed when the rules are not followed, and with a full playing board. We proposed different strategies for the gameplay and evaluated the effects of these strategies on the expected time it takes to win the game with a full playing board. Results showed that strategies and rules decisions combination have little effect on the expected length of the game and that it is imperative for two players to follow the rules of the sequence dice game as not adhering to the rules can lead to deadlock. Additionally, we found that, when the two players used 20 chips each, the expected length of the sequence dice game was between $32 - 37$ rolls, while for an unlimited number of chips, the expected length of the sequence dice game was between $41 - 47$ rolls.
